# kempalytics
Repository with the various workings of Matt Kemp

This repository is a random collection of projects that I have worked on in my personal time to refine my coding pracices and seek answers to various problems I have identified. The domain areas I have studied here range from things that are more career-relevant such as managing a stock portfolio or quantifying the relationship between Reddit mentions and stock performance, to things that are more casual such as how to best manage a fantasy sports team. All the projects here have my unique blend of seeking efficiency and leveraging code to see data better and answer life's most intriguing questions, such as 'how can I expect my portfolio to perform in a normalized return environment' to 'what pitcher should I pick up in my fantasy baseball league.' Below is a quick summary of some of the scripts you will find here

Pybaseball_XGBoost: I was interested in creating my own model for analyzing baseball data and determining what qualities of a pitch resulted in a higher chance of it getting hit hard. To make this determination, I used 2025 MLB statcast data in an XGBoost model. First I took several features including spin rate, where the pitch crosses the plate (plate_x and plate_z), release positions, release extension, player handedness, pitch type, and launch angle. A hard hit ball is defined as a hit ball with a launch speed greater than or equal to 95, and only balls that resulted in a hit were used in model. After running the model and analyzing the result I saw that launch angle was one of the most influential factors in determining if a ball would be hit hard. This is a bit leaky, and probably a result of those pitches being barrelled, so I removed that feature from the model and re-ran it. I also tweaked the model from the original features by adding an inside pitch value instead of taking plate_x in its raw form, since a plate at a given horizontal position can mean very different things based on the handedness of the batter, and an absolute value of plate_x because that gives more insight into how the pitch drifts from the middle and see if that makes a difference in value. The second version of the model resulted in slightly lower precision and recall, but I think this change was still a positive direction for the intent of the model because I was isolating things that are more in the pitcher's control. The result is that based on the XGBoost model location is more influential than other factors that go into a pitch, with the plate_x_abs, plate_z, and inside_pitch features being the most influential in the model. Pitches that are high/outside and low/inside seem to be the most susceptible to being hard hit. This can be then fed into player development plans and game plans, where pitchers can try to avoid these areas of the plate to induce weaker contact from pitchers. This can then be translated into a gameplan, in order to avoid more hard hit balls we would put less emphasis on the type of pitch thrown and more about what locations to avoid. This can be further customized by hitter to avoid their preferred locations and situation.

RedditAPI_Pushshift: This script was created in 2021 because i was fascinated with the connection between a discussion on social media boards regarding a stock and what it could imply for the future of the stock performance. Looking back this now feels more like an isolated incident, but I wanted to try and quantify the impact and create what I felt could be a risk factor that could be monitored on a portfolio dashboard with several other, perhaps more traditional, risk factors on a portfolio. I was able to pull data from the Pushshift API which gathers Reddit data and pair it with stock data to create an interesting visual which is published to Tableau public (https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/matt.kemp/viz/GMEMentions/GMEStockvs_RedditMentions). This code is what made it work. Since Reddit seems to have removed it's public API this no longer can generate results as originally designed, but I created the foundation of how to look at this data and how it relates together and would be a great complementary analysis to put into an overall portfolio risk profile dashboard.

Portfolio Monte Carlo Analysis: This is creating a basic analysis that is intended to take a list of ticker symbols and weights, get a rate of return and portfolio standard deviation based on historical data, then run those numbers through a monte carlo analysis to see some random fabricated results of how the portfolio may perform over time along with comparison to a benchmark using a similar approach. This code will serve as a base model for future portfolio management concepts in the future. Additional items I'm working on include a more holistic portfolio risk analysis and leveraging the ChatGPT API to analyze non-standard data and how that might impact a portfolio approach

Cook County Property Data: The original purpose of this code was for me to analyze property values with the intent to lower my property tax bill. I generalized it to pull data through the cook county property API and ran a simple regression just to see which factors have more influence in determining a property value with the provided fields in the API. This will also serve as a base foundation for more development to come.

ESPN Fantasy Weekly Result: I am a commissioner of a fantasy football league, and when I found out that ESPN had a free (though poorly documented) API to use I started pulling data initially to automate the keeper prices in my league, which had some custom rules and was originally put together very tediously by the previous commissioner every August. I then created a free Slack for the league to boost engagement and communication, and as a way to promote engagement even further I started writing a weekly update to talk about the league and went a little crazy with the ways I started using all the data at my disposal to enhance those updates. This code is a mess of information and I pull things based on what I felt helped to articulate the stories of the week both in the real NFL and our alternate fantasy one. As a result this script will not look polished and creates several random outputs but it's extremely helpful for me to do engaging write-ups and I'm proud of the various problems I was able to solve in this code, especially given the lack of documentation on this API (Please ESPN, document your API)

FBB Player Analysis: I also participate in a fantasy baseball league every summer, and my experience with the ESPN Fantasy API led me to investigate the Yahoo fantasy API, which is where my baseball league is hosted. This did have better documentation and I was able to put together several scripts that helped me with the league. This one is more generic, it is just taking player data from the pybaseball package and pairing it with ownership information from my league so that I can look at advanced stats for each player and determine which free agents to pick up as well as which players are good trade candidates for me to target and which on my team am I comfortable with trading away because they may be overperforming relative to their underlying numbers. This has been a tremendous resource for me as I try to win the league every year, as pairing this advanced metric player data with my specific league data creates a lot of value and saves a lot of time bouncing between websites and apps to attempt seeing the same storyline manually.